So in this video we're gonna be talking
about local state in your Apollo store.
Now what is local state?
Local state is data that might not necessarily
live in your database,
it's not gonna live in your GraphQL API
on the server, but it's data that needs to live
in the browser for whatever reason.
Generally for local data in the browser
you use something called state.
But it can be a little hard to move
state around and kind of ripple it
throughout your application, so some alternatives
to using just React state
is, you could use something like Redux
and have a store at the top level of your application,
and you can inject those wherever you want.
There's something new to React Context,
I have a video on YouTube on that as well.
However, when you're using Apollo
to store all of your GraphQL data,
it makes sense to also use Apollo
and GraphQL to store your local data.
That way you can write queries and mutations
the same way you would for your server-side
against your client-side data.
So that's exactly what we're gonna be doing.
First thing we need to do is open up
our withdata.js file, and remember
that this is where we created our Apollo Client,
this is where we create our Apollo store,
and inside of this Apollo Client,
what we're gonna do is we're gonna tell it to also store
some local data.
Go right below your request right here.
And we're gonna add a configuration property
here called clientstate.
And that's your local data, maybe we should put
a little comment above that.
Local data.
And clientstate takes a couple things:
resolvers for our mutations,
and that's gonna be empty for now.
And then it's also gonna take
a bunch of defaults for the data when it loads.
You do that with React state as well,
when the component loads you give it
an empty or a default state.
In our case we're gonna call it cartOpen,
and we're gonna make that true,
and that's just gonna be the default for the,
that's gonna be the boolean we're gonna be flipping
back and forth.
Now we're gonna open up our cart.js,
head up to the top, and we're gonna import
the query and mutation from React Apollo,
and we're also gonna import GQL from GraphQL tag.
Then we're going to actually write our query,
so we'll say const.
I'm gonna call it local state query,
'cause you could use the query for many pieces
of local state, just as like a handy little
grab local state,
however you could have many different queries
that just grab one specific piece of state,
depends on what you're trying to do here.
So we're gonna make it GQL, just like we do
for our server-side queries.
Inside of that we have a query,
and we're going to ask from local state,
we're just going to ask for the cartOpen property.
Now the only difference that we have here
is you tag it with a directive that's called client.
And what that does is it lets Apollo know,
don't try to go to the GraphQL API for this,
don't try go to the server for this piece of data,
because this is client-side data,
so just grab it directly from the Apollo store
and don't worry about anything
going off to the server for that.
Now it's simply just the same
as our regular query components.
We can grab a query right here,
and that has a query itself called local state query.
Then we do our regular arrow function, here.
And we're going to destructure the data
that that query gives us.
I'm gonna put this query at the bottom of our cart styles.
And we can do a little debugging here.
If we say console.log, the data or or.
And now if we give it a refresh,
you'll see that when the cart loads
the query triggers local state
and if we open this up, you'll see
that we have our data called cartOpen.
That's great, because that allows us
to do open equals data.cartOpen.
Can get rid of this console log here.
And now if this were to change to false as a default
and I refresh it, you'll see that it's now closed.
Set it to true.
I have to manually refresh 'cause these are the defaults
when the store is created,
but what we're actually gonna do now
is actually code up a mutation that will
toggle this thing back and forth.
So let's go back to cart right here,
and let's make a new mutation called
const TOGGLE_CART_MUTATION,
it's equal to GQL,
and we write a mutation called toggleCart.
There's no arguments or anything,
we just have to tag it again with client.
Then we can take that
and this is gonna get a little bit hairy,
because we're gonna be wrapping a mutation,
and then a query inside of that.
I'm gonna show you how we can refactor
this in just a little bit,
so hold on to your pants for a second.
Mutation, pass the mutation here,
toggleCart mutation, then we do an arrow function inside
of that where the one function that it
gives us is called toggleCart.
And bring this sucker right down to the bottom.
It doesn't matter that mutation comes first
and query comes second, you could
do it the other way around.
Then we take this toggleCart method,
we go to our close button, and we should be able
to say onClick equals toggleCart.
Now, we haven't written a resolver,
which, a resolver is what happens
when this function gets called,
but if we click it now, it should tell us
something about, like cannot find a resolver for it.
Let's check that now.
Click on this button.
There we go: missing field toggleCart
in curly brackets, so a bit of an error.
Now we'll go back to our withdata,
and we'll code up the resolver for that thing
that we just created.
What did we call it?
We called it toggleCart.
So in our resolvers you have mutation, our resolver.
And inside of that we have our toggleCart.
That toggleCart gives us three things:
first is just underscore.
I don't know what that is.
I looked at the documentation
and I couldn't figure it out, but why
the documentation is using an underscore
here is because they don't need it.
Sometimes people would just use an underscore.
You could put anything in there that you want,
actually, that wouldn't work.
You can put anything in there that's a valid variable name,
and that will just be garbage collected,
so you don't want it,
so it's kind of a little practice
that people just use an underscore.
Might not be a good thing if you
actually need the underscore variable
for something like Lodash.
Second, we have the variables
that come along with the request.
In our case, we don't have any variables
but if you were calling this mutation
with a bunch of variables, you would be able to access 'em.
And then third, you get the Apollo Client,
and inside of that client, we actually
don't want the entire client, we're gonna just destructure
the cache from the client.
And this is gonna be very similar to how,
when we deleted an item,
we mainly removed it from the cache.
In this case what we're gonna be doing is,
we're going to be pulling that value,
cartOpen value, out of the cache,
reading it, and then setting it
back into the cache with the opposite value.
That's what we're gonna do now is first,
read the cartOpen value from the cache.
Now, this is a little bit weird.
You can't just say, I would love
to do just cache.cartOpen,
and be able to get it, but you have to have
an entire GraphQL query in order
to just read from the cache.
But that's not a problem, because we already have written
that query in our cart.js, so we're going to import
that ourselves, so let's go over to cart.js.
This is the one that we have here,
local state query, so what we can do
is we can export the local state query.
And then while we're here, let's also export
that other one, toggleCart mutation,
because we will need it throughout the application.
Whenever you want to open your cart,
doesn't matter where you are, if somebody
adds something to their cart, like they click on this bag
and they click Add to Cart,
if you wanted to then trigger
the cart to open, to show them
that it's in your cart,
then you need access to this mutation.
So we're gonna export them from cart.js,
we're going to import them into our withdata,
and then we go back down to our toggleCart resolver
that we have here,
and we'll say const cartOpen is equal to cache.readQuery
and the query we want to read is called LOCAL_STAUTE_QUERY.
And here we can just console log cartOpen.
And now if I click this x, maybe I give it a refresh.
I think you have to refresh every single time
that you edit this, because we are editing
the Apollo Client, and it doesn't have
hot reloading enabled for you, so if you're having trouble
just do a hard refresh,
and there we go.
We get that true from popping up
on line 26, where I authored it.
And then here we want to write
the cart state to the opposite.
So we'll make a new variable called data
and that is equal to an object
which has a data property inside of that.
And this inside of that we have our cartOpen property.
Now, that could be either false or true.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna set it to the opposite
of our cartOpen variable that we just queried
out of the cache.
So you see how we're pulling it out
and then immediately going to set it back.
And then the way that we set it back
is we say cache.writeData passes that data variable
that we just created,
and finally you return data from this resolver,
which is why we're getting this warning right here.
That should fix it.
Now, when I click on this, it's always true,
'cause I forgot to refresh.
Now when I click on this, woo, look at that!
It just closed.
I have no way to open it again,
because the button is hidden,
so what we now need to do is to code
something in our navigation that shows our cart
and how many items are in it,
and when we click that it'll, whoop,
slide that sucker on out, so let's get into that now.
In our cart.js file, remember that we exported
this toggle cart mutation.
Then, we just really need to import
that wherever it is that we need to trigger that mutation.
In our case, that's in the nav.js.
Let's go down right below the signout button
and just give ourselves a button tag,
lowercase button that says My Cart.
There we go, so it says my cart,
and then what we wanna do is wrap
that in a mutation that, when clicked,
will actually trigger our toggleCart mutation.
Head up to the top of nav.js,
and we're going to import mutation from React Apollo,
and we're going to import the TOGGLE_CART_MUTATION
from our cart file, where we defined it.
Then we need to go down to that button
that we just newly created, grab ourselves
a mutation component.
That mutation has a mutation
that is our TOGGLE_CART_MUTATION.
And of course, the child of this
is going to be an arrow function.
There, we have our toggleCart function.
Bring these below the button,
and then the button can be hooked up
onClick equals toggleCart.
Now if I click this thing, it slides it on open.
Obviously we can close it with our other one
and that is really slick.
It's pretty cool that you're able to put a couple lines
of code around a component and expose that functionality
anywhere in our application, and there's no need
to pass down that function
from one level to another.
That is working pretty well, let's move
on to the server side where we set up
our schema to handle cart and cart items
and all that good stuff, so I'll see you in the next one.